---
layout:     post
title:      "3/100 Interviews: Entrepreneur, Founder"
description: "DA third culture kid, living in different countries up until college, she took on an untraditional career path as a fresh grad. I had the privilege of witnessing her drive and ambition from afar while in college, appearing frequently on TV and in newspapers for her social activism. After dabbling in the #startup world, she went on to a #venturecapital firm, and is now endeavouring on her own #entrepreneurship journey playing a critical role in enabling quality pet care for all in Latin America. 

I learned about what it's like to be an #entrepreneur and ofc, how to be a #founder."
date:       2023-08-11 17:00:00
author:     "Risa kazui"
header-img: assets/img/posts/header-img/entrepreneur.png

categories:
  - Tips/Tricks
---


# Key Q’s

### What led you to this nontraditional career path?

“I couldn’t see myself doing Shukatsu (traditional job-seeking in Japan) and I also couldn’t see myself working in Japan. It’s incredibly difficult getting a visa sponsorship as a fresh grad so I realized,

the only way to work overseas and on my own terms would be to build a company.

Thankfully I had encountered the startup ecosystem while on my year-long exchange in Chile, so while I was writing my senior thesis, I started networking and building my own projects. I was fortunate enough that many mentors and people I look up to adopted me like their child, and led me in the right direction in the world of entrepreneurship.” 


### How do you differentiate between a crap vs. a good business idea?

“While there are definitive ways to judge this, for me, it just clicked. For example, I was always an advocate for animal rights, and so when I realized the gap in the market, it just made sense to me that it was my job to fill it. 

It’s just important to know that if it fails, it fails, and it’s completely okay. Whether or not you internalize that mindset can alter your chances of realizing a business idea.”


### What is it like being a founder?

“There have been many unexpected challenges; the amount of admin I have to do, how lonely it can get, the feeling of responsibility for your employees, etc. I’ve also bootstrapped my startups so my life was far from one of the shiny entrepreneurs; I didn’t pay myself. 

But I feel like I’ve stayed true to my ambition and my social passion. My personal drive to fix the injustice in the world is what makes this all feel worth it.”

# Additional Words of Wisdom
Grow your network
The older you get, you have more responsibility, hence you become risk-averse
Learn how to automate and digitize everything
Health is wealth



# My personal notes
Her energy and confidence pierced through the Zoom screen, and I came out of the meeting feeling incredibly inspired. It was a chat of less than an hour, but I felt like I could see that she truly embodied the saying, 

**“Don’t be afraid to make mistakes”**

Very often, my fear of not being good at something leads to chronic procrastination or leaving great ideas on the back burner. But this mindset is detrimentally limiting. Talking to her made me realize the power of embracing failure, that while not wanting to look like a failure is valid, it can be a game changer to just think, imma just try it. 

The mindset of ‘looking good’ is a cage, it guards you from any chance of endeavouring on the wildest and most exciting ambitions you have. 

A little cliche, but something I really needed to hear around the time I talked to her. It was a good mindset for little things like procrastination but also for bigger things like career paths and goal setting for myself.  
