---
layout:     post
title:      "6/100 Interviews: Textiles, MBA, VC, Consulting"
description: "She kicked off her career after college at a 150-year-old textile company in Japan. After a few years, she made the brave decision to fly across the world to #NewYorkCity to pursue a #MBA. However, her plans took a turn with # COVID-19 where after a few twists and turns, she found herself in the #startup world, working at a #VC. While she credits much of her career to merely following her interests, I was incredibly inspired by how proactive she is, offering much advice on how to curate your opportunities and value in a company. She is currently a #consultant in #NYC.

We spoke about working overseas, #opportunities, and #job-seeking as a foreigner in the U.S."
date:       2023-08-14 17:00:00
author:     "Risa Kazui"
header-img: assets/img/posts/header-img/textiles.png

categories:
  - Tips/Tricks
---

She kicked off her career after college at a 150-year-old textile company in Japan. After a few years, she made the brave decision to fly across the world to #NewYorkCity to pursue a #MBA. However, her plans took a turn with # COVID-19 where after a few twists and turns, she found herself in the #startup world, working at a #VC. While she credits much of her career to merely following her interests, I was incredibly inspired by how proactive she is, offering much advice on how to curate your opportunities and value in a company. She is currently a #consultant in #NYC.

We spoke about working overseas, #opportunities, and #job-seeking as a foreigner in the U.S.
<hr>

### Theme 1: Opportunities are often self-made.

***“It’s become an instinct to say that I am capable of doing something, even if it takes a few more google searches behind the scenes to prepare.”***

While you should never lie during an interview, there is a difference between answering the question, ‘Can you do this?’ with,

Nope, I’ve never done this

VS

Yeah, let me see it

She emphasized how having the mindset that she is capable of learning any task if she puts her mind to it has led her to avenues that consequently led to greater things.

For example, when she met a founder in the startup community in New York City who was on the hunt for someone to manage their social media, she volunteered even though social media was uncharted territory for her. She asked around for advice and educated herself while completing the tasks, which allowed her to earn while studying and see the insides of a startup in the US, which was critical knowledge for her VC position.

Although this attitude towards herself and her work was always evident from the beginning of her career, she saw it in practice while working at a VC. The people who seem most accomplished and capable believe that they are so to the core; they live, eat, and breathe "I can."


### Theme 2: Stay hungry, stay foolish
***“I started my MBA journey with my Japanese company as a sponsor, but when COVID hit, they retracted my sponsorship and told me to return. It was terrifying but it was then that I decided to quit my job and stay in New York City”***

Although she never sought out specific milestones in her career, she has always been intentional and proactive in her choices. She honored her interests and took on challenges that aligned with her curiosity.

For example, while she was a fresh grad in Japan, she volunteered to observe factories and create new projects. She also decided to apply for an MBA in the US through her company because she wanted to learn more about organizations.
When COVID hit, her MBA aspirations were almost cut short when the Japanese textile company asked her to come back. However, she saw that her work would not be any different from before, so she made the courageous decision to stay and pay her own way through the degree.

She took courses outside her marketing niche and tried everything to build herself. 

Although her job-seeking process as a foreigner in the U.S. has been difficult, especially in the last year, she firmly believes that not having her company’s sponsorship has opened up new possibilities for her. Quitting her job in the midst of a pandemic was a massive risk, but her fear of inertia and a static life propelled her to make the leap. She is now a consultant at a Japanese company in New York City. 


### Additional Notes
The women I admire are good at explaining what they want
There has been no huge advantage so far in being multilingual in the startup space 

<hr>


# My Personal Notes (just my personal opinion)
To this day, my fondness for Japan ebbs and flows. Sometimes I could not be more proud to be Japanese. While other times, I avoid my chances of living in Tokyo at all costs. 
For those who are confused, here’s a little peek. We all know Japan for how well it’s been able to retain its culture, but this is a double-edged sword. What’s behind this impressive ability to preserve is an unwillingness to evolve, and a predilection for the familiar. This can feel suffocating to some who inherently do not fulfill the image of a ‘real Japanese’ (such as racially mixed kids or foreigners) as there seems to be a gravitational pull towards adapting and assimilating to the masses.
Although I am half Japanese, I tend to shy away from staying in Japan long-term because time and time again, I’ve found myself acquiescing to this gravitational pull, for the sake of having a good workplace or even just making friends. The scary thing about all this is that you often don’t realize that you’re morphing. At least I don’t since I tend to adapt so easily. 
It’s so easy to be satisfied with a 9-5 life, where some weekends are in Hakone with your boyfriend ordering room service, and then you get married at 25, and then you spend some Saturday afternoons at the Ritz for afternoon tea with your girlfriends and that’s kind of it. This is what keeps me up at night. iykyk.
Or perhaps it’s more that I am terrified of a life that strives for what others believe is ‘right’. Perhaps it’s the fact that it feels harder to preserve myself in Japan, as my values are constantly threatened by societal influences. My greatest fear is that one day I’ll wake up and realize that decades have gone by, I haven’t embarked on any of my own ambitions but have spent my days trying to blend into society. Terrifying. 
So I truly admired this interviewee. She had a good position at a good company in Japan. But she wanted something greater for herself. This was a transition that took guts and a strong intuition, because she chose for more, even when a master’s degree is still uncommon in Japan (only 12.4% of college grads go to grad school). 
Do not get me wrong, the Japanese workplace lives up to its reputation for stability, and it is thanks to this system and my father for committing 4 decades of his life to a big Japanese company that I am where I am today. And if I one day decide that everything is worth sacrificing for stability and life in Japan, I will happily fall in line.

But I just hope that when I face these decisions, they are made completely autonomously, where I have full agency over the path, unfettered by gravitational pulls or societal beckonings.
