---
layout:     post
title:      "4/100 Interviews: IR Degree, Consultant"
description: "Job-seeking with a humanities background can be disheartening in a time where #tech, #softwareengineering, and #FAAMG are the hype words. Is a degree in international relations a thing of the past? Is it a disadvantage? What are the possibilities?
I reached out to this person because he had an extensive academic background in International Relations and Politics, pivoted out to a top management consulting firm, and then now returned to the political sphere at a leading world news provider. 

We spoke about #internationalrelations, getting a #mastersdegree, and #managementconsulting."
date:       2023-08-12 17:00:00
author:     "Risa kazui"
header-img: assets/img/posts/header-img/IR.png

categories:
  - Tips/Tricks
---
4/100  Interviews: IR Degree, Consultant
Job-seeking with a humanities background can be disheartening in a time where #tech, #softwareengineering, and #FAAMG are the hype words. Is a degree in international relations a thing of the past? Is it a disadvantage? What are the possibilities?
I reached out to this person because he had an extensive academic background in International Relations and Politics, pivoted out to a top management consulting firm, and then now returned to the political sphere at a leading world news provider. 

We spoke about #internationalrelations, getting a #mastersdegree, and #managementconsulting. 

# Key Q’s

### After a bachelor’s in Japan, what led you to pursue an IR-related MA at Georgetown?

“I was confident in my passion for international studies, but I felt that my knowledge wasn’t specialised enough. My ambitions for post-grad were also murky because of this, so I decided to narrow down my interests by pursuing a masters. My degree allowed me to double down on my two core interests, american politics and east asian studies.

Of course there were moments of doubt in my field of expertise but I believe that there are plenty of places for IR to survive and even, thrive. There are so countless important interdisciplinary fields - IR and tech, IR and legal, IR and energy, IR and agriculture. Just work for a few years and you’ll find your niche for IR.”


### What was being a mgmt consultant like and why did you choose to leave?

“It was one of my first experiences in the corporate world. My politics-heavy background made me stand out in a world of finance and business, and I saw how logic played a huge role in everything. The firm I was at had incredible people, and I saw how the brains of those in business work, as well as how massive international organizations work. 

However, I do not expect myself to do it again. I didn’t feel the same interest or passion I felt for international relations, so, after three years I moved to a company that allows me to use my learned business development and corporate skills as well as my political science interests. While I work with a much smaller team now, I believe I’ve found the area that I am good at which is an overlap between IR and business.”

<hr>

# My personal notes
One of the last things he mentioned was,

「興味あるかどうか判断するのは感覚的なもの。そして、これは歳をとっても変わらない感覚」

“You’ll feel it when you’ve come across something you’re truly interested in. It’s a feeling that you’ll feel even as you grow older.”

Is an interest innate or do we build them over time? I remember being really interested in the alto saxophone but now the sparkly instrument is collecting dust in my closet. How do we define ourselves through what we’re interested in? While I do believe that there is truth to his statement - there are things that we just aren’t interested in - this talk was actually the pivot point where I started to look for jobs not by industry or company product but the skills of the job. 

What skills do I lack and want? 

Is the question I started to ask myself every day, and jobs started to look more appealing for me, a generalist job-seeker.
